Cambria Daily Leader
Friday 28 June 1918

THE SPANISH FLU. 
Cases Multiplying in and Around Swansea. 
The Spanish influenza runs its giddy course in and around Swansea. It is no respecter of persons; busy and leisured people, rich and poor, young and old. are down with it. In one controlled works in the neighbourhood over 40 girls are down with it; one of the drapery establishments of the town has 15 girl workers hors de combat; whole families in the Hafod and elsewhere are contemporary sufferers: and everywhere one hears tho same tale of woe. It will have its run; and all one can do is to exercise due care, take precautions and ammoniated tincture of quinine.

GOVT. PLEDGES 
RESTORATION OF PRE- WAR CONDITIONS 
SWANSEA EXECUTIVE OFFICERS 
Special to the Leader." 
WESTMINSTER, Friday. 
This was the concluding day of the Annual Conference of the Labour Party, Mr. W. F. Purdy again presiding. 
Mr. John Hill moved a resolution on the subject of the restoration of the trade union conditions. In this the Government were reminded that it was pledged to the restoration alfer the war of the conditions that prevailed in the workshops before the war. Parliament was asked to limit all restrictive legislation directed against workpeople strictly to the war period. 
GOVERNMENT BONA FIDES. 
Mr. Hill declared that the longer the war went on the liberties of trade unionists were curtailed. The Army authorities were now doing all sorts of work, and soldiers worked harder than any other men. the penalty for not doing a specified amount in a certain time being that they were returned to the lines. He said they, of the Labour Party, had good grounds for doubting the bona fides of the Government. PREVENTION OF UNEMPLOYMENT 
The resolution having been adopted, the question of the prevention of unemployment came up, and the chairman, in the absence of Mr. George Lansbury, moved a resolution in which it was declared to be the duty of the Ministry, before demobilisation began, so to arrange the next ten years of national and local government works and services including housing, schools, roads, railways, canals, etc., as to he able to put this programme in hand at such a rate as any congestion of the labour market may require. 
Mr. Alexander, of the British Socialist Party, moved an amendment stating that it was the duty of the State to provide either work or full maintenance for the workers, but this was rejected and the resolution adopted. 
EMANCIPATION OF WOMEN. 
After a resolution had been adopted, on the motion of Mr. W. C. Robinson to the effect that to meet the needs of the individual out of work. the best provision was that out of work pay of a strong trade union, supplemented by Government subvention, Miss Mary McArthur brought forward the question of the complete emancipation of women, and declaring that it was necessary to pay special attcntion in the reconstruction programme to, matters affecting women. She proposed that work or maintenance should be, provided for all women displaced from their employment to make way for men returning from service with the forces. All women, it was contended employed in trades formerly closed to them, should only continue to be so employed at trade union rates of wages. It was also proposed that the principle of equal pay for equal work should be adopted everywhere Mr. Green (of the Clerks' Union). Shef- field, moved an amendment to delete "equal work" and insert "similar duties," and this was adopted, after which the resolution was carried. 
Mr. J. W. Ogden moved a resolution in which it was declared that the Conference regarded as fundamcntal the immediate repeal and abrogation, as soon as the war ends, of the whole system of the Military Service Acts, and the Defence of the Relm Act. restricting freedom of speech, freedom of publication. freedom of the press, etc 
WRONGLY GRADED. 
Mr. W. C. Anderson said that men were being graded A 1, though admittedly not fit for active military service. The resolution having been adopted, the Conference considered the subject of political reforms, and Mr. Bromley (Leeds), moved a long resolution advocating complete adult suffrage, equal rights for both sexes, the same civil rights for soldiers and sailors as for officers, and other changes. He declared that the attempt to disfranchise conscientious objectors was a piece of savage and brutal revenge on the part of the capitalistic class. 
FUTURE OF THE LORDS. 
An amendment from Northampton advocated the abolition of the House of Lords, and this was agreed to, as also was another from Glasgow Trades Council protesting against the disfranchisement of conscientious objectors. The resolution as altered was then adopted. Mr. J.0.Grady moved a resolution in favour of a Home uNle measure for Ireland, and he called upon the Premier's of overseas Dominions to insist upon the question being submitted to them now for settlement. This having been passed, the Conference approved of a proposal for constitutional devolution involving separate legislative assemblies for England, Scotland and Wales, as well as for Ireland. after which Mr. Jowett, M.P., dealt with local government, and with a view to avoiding the evil of centralisation proposed that a freer hand be given to local suthorities. 
CHILDREN AND MILITARY TRAINING. 
This was adopted as also was a proposal by Mr. Sidney Webb, advocating a systematic reorganisation of the whole educational system. In this connection resolution against military training for children, and another favouring free maintenance for them were adopted. Complaint was made of teachers' small salaries. 
HOUSING PROBLEMS. 
On the question of housing, it was urged that there should be a national campaign of cottage building at the public expense owing to the shortage of habitable cottages. A resolution was adopted emphasising the importance of the abolition of poor law and the development of a municipal health service. Another resolution advocated temperance reform, and the retention of railways and canals in public hands was advocated. It was urged that the electricity supply should be in the hands of the Government, and that coal and iron mines, now in Government hands, ought not to be handed back to capitalist proprietors. 
SWANSEA MEN ON EXECUTIVE. 
The following were elected on the exective committe:—Messrs. A. G. Cameron. J. R. Clynes, C. T. Cramp, W. H. Hutchinson, F. W. Jowett, Jobn McGark, W. F. Purdy, T. Richards W. C. Robinson, Ben Turner, Sidney Webb, J. Wignail (Swansea) and R. Williams (Swansea).