The Cambrian 23rd June 1882 Page 3

FATAL ACCIDENT ON THE STRAND. 
Another street, or rather low level, accident occurred in Swansea on Monday about noon, which resulted in the death of John Fortune, aged 84, a general marine store dealer, who was knocked down by the engine on the Public thoroughfare near Padley's Quay. The wheels passing over his legs cut them both off, and the poor fellow died before he could be taken to the hospital. An inquest was held by Mr. E. Strick at that institution on Tuesday, when Mr. Wyndham Lawrence watched the case on behalf of the family of the deceased, and Capt. Colquhoun was present as the representative of the Police and the Corporation; the Tramway Company were unrepresented. Thomas Retiken, of Bridge-street, Greenhill, deposed that deceased was his grandfather, 84 years of age, who was in business for himself as general marine store dealer. Witness worked with him as an assistant. Deceased was energetic notwithstanding his great age, and took an active part in the business, being used to go about alone, and being able to read a newspaper with the aid of spectacles. He was not very deaf, and he never took drink as far as witness knew. Joseph Buller, general merchant, Padley's Yard, deposed that on looking out through the window of Harris and Co.'s office, about 12 o'clock on Monday, he saw deceased on the line, and saw the engine and trucks come along and knock him down. Had not seen which Way deceased was going when he was struck. The engine stopped almost immediately. There is a curve in the line at that spot, and a dip, and the tram had to pass under an archway. Trams were driven very fast at that point because of the dip and the rise. Could not say whether this tram was going very fast at the time. Did not see any man in front of the engine. There was a public crossing, and the point was very dangerous on account of the arch. There was a public closet placed by the Corporation under the archway, Joseph Eastman, fruiterer, of 22 Castle street, was on his premises on Padley's Quay, about 15ft. from the tramway, which was a public thoroughfare. Heard a bell ringing and people shouting that a man was under the tram. Saw deceased under the front truck attached to the engine. Two wheels had passed over him, and his legs appeared to have been cut to pieces. The general speed of trams at that spot was 8 to 10 miles an hour sometimes it was more. They were obliged to go fast because the loads were heavy and there was a dip. On this occasion the load was so heavy that, after the tram had stopped, it had to be divided before it could be started again. Mr. John Kemp, master mariner, saw a man sitting on the buffer in front of the engine. As far as he saw there was no one running in front of the engine; the speed was too great to admit of that. John Ridgway, cartman, saw deceased turn as if to get to the railway arch. He and another man shouted, but deceased took no notice. The engine then came up, knocked him down, rolled him over, and dragged him some 12 or 15 feet. One foot was cut off above the boot and the other through the boot. The truck next to the engine passed over his thighs. There was a man running in front of the engine, but he was 100 yards off. The inquest was then adjourned till Wednesday. The inquest was resumed on Wednesday morning at the Guildhall, when Mr. Glascodine appeared for the Company. John Jones, haulier, deposed that there was a man running in front of the engine, and the bell was rung. The speed was from six to seven miles an hour, and was brought to a stand still immediately. The driver jumped off the engine and dragged the deceased from under the truck. When witness first saw deceased, deceased was walking slowly, but witness did not think the deceased was going to cross the line. By Mr. Edwards (for the Corporation): The engineman in front had no flag in his hand, but he beckoned to the engine to come on. By a Juryman Had there been a man riding on the buffer of the engine be would have had time to jump down and save the man, but no one was there. William Huxtable, under-shunter in the employ of the company, deposed that he was running in front of the engine at jog trot about 15 to 20 yards in advance. The engine bell was ringing and the whistle blowing. Witness saw no one in front but a boy with a barrow, but he got out of the way. But then hearing a shout, he looked round and saw a man under the train. Witness called to the driver, who pulled up immediately. Could not say at what speed the engine was going. Witness had been in the employ about two months. After the body had been picked up, the train was started, but only three trucks were taken, because there being an incline there, the whole could not be moved together. It was usual at that spot to go faster, because very often the train came to a stop, and could not be started without being divided. Witness knew of no rules for guidance of speed. He took his orders from the foreman shunter who was with the train. Witness bad his handkerchief instead of a flag in his hand at the time of the accident. Upon being further questioned, witness said he was not in the employ of the Swansea and Mumbles Railway Company, but was employed by Mr. Knox, as agent for Mr. John Dickson. Samuel Phillips, foreman-shunter, said there were rules for their guidance in the office. He ordered Huxtable to go in front on Monday and keep the line clear. It was usual to pull up the train just before coming to the spot where the accident occurred, because there was a good deal of traffic there. It was the duty of Huxtable to be about 15 yards in front and to give the signal to come on. Five or six miles an hour was the usual speed at that spot. In cross-examination, witness said that after the accident the train had to be divided because of a defect in the brake of one of the waggons, and not because the load was too heavy. A train of six waggons would go up the incline there easily. Trains were never divided there. Wm. C. Humphreys, M.R.C.S., the medical officer of the Swansea Hospital, said the deceased had been brought to the Hospital. Upon examination of the body, witness found a large wound on the side of the head, while both legs were smashed, the feet cut up, and the thighs almost separated from the body. Deceased died immediately he was brought to the Hospital. The inquired was then adjourned till the evening. At 5 o'clock the inquest was resumed at the Guildhall when in addition to Mr. Lawrence on behalf of the family, and Mr. Edwards for the police, Mr. C. H. Glascodine, and Mr. J. Dickson, Mr. Westrup, Mr. Rayner and Mr. Knox appeared for the Tramway Company. Mr. Lawrence asked whether any evidence would be offered as to their right to run over this low level tramway. Mr. Glascodine said no such evidence would be offered Mr. Lawrence said it was contended that though they had long exercised the right to run, it was illegal. The Coroner said that if anyone found fault with their running, he could indict the Company for a nuisance. Philip John, of Nichol street, engineer, deposed I am in the employ of Mr. John Dickson, and have been in charge of the engine shed at the South Docks for about 20 years. The engines used to be kept there until about six weeks ago. To this shed the men were in the habit of going to be paid. There were rules for the guidance of the engine driver as to the speed of trains. They were written rules, but as the shed was destroyed he could not produce a copy. However, he remembered the spirit of the rules. It was to the effect that the speed was to be limited to four miles an hour in the streets, but might be increased to six miles on the banks where there is no danger. The locomotive shed was the only place where this notice was put up. The notice bore the signature of Mr. Knox. Witness knew that at least two engine drivers had lost their situations because they had exceeded the speed mentioned in the rules. By Mr. Lawrence I know the spot where the accident took place, and have seen the engines passing. I don't believe they exceeded four miles an hour. Since they had to stop in Mount street, I don't think the engine could get up more speed than that at that spot. By a Juryman: The attention of the men was frequently called to these rules by Mr. Knox, and I had to see they were enforced, but of course I could not be everywhere. By the Coroner: There was no indicator on the engine to show the speed. I, myself, called the attention of all the men, drivers and guards, to the notices. David Evans, 27, Bathurst-street, lately in the employ Mr. Dickson as foreman, deposed I knew the rules as to the rate of speed. It was from four to six miles-four miles an hour across the streets, and no more than six anywhere. I was engaged overlooking the cranes, and I went from one crane to another on the engines. I know two engine-men were discharged for breaking the rule One was D. Daniel, and the other Pendril Charles. As soon as it was reported that they had gone too fast over the streets, they were dismissed at once. By Mr. Lawrence: I think those rules were very fairly carried out. I know the spot where the accident took place. I know the speed is increased there, but not beyond six or seven miles an hour. The speed is not increased to ten miles an hour. People are easily deceived as to speed. I never saw the train divided because the engine could not pull it up there. By. Mr. Glascodine: I have been accustomed to railways all my life. Lately only six loaded trucks were taken, or nine empties. The engine could pull nine loaded trucks past there easily. Robert Guard deposed: I have been accustomed to railways all my life. I saw the accident. I am sure the train was not going more than six miles an hour. Had he been going quicker, he could not possibly pull up as soon as he did with a light engine and with no other brake power. I was doing business with Mr. Eastman at the time. He must have been deceived in thinking the train was going ten miles an hour. I was engaged for some time as goods guard on the Midland Railway. By the Coroner My attention has not been called to this matter by the Company's men. I took an interest in It as an old railway man, and I knew that the statement in the papers that 15 miles an hour was run was a mistake. By Mr. Lawrence: Though the engine was coming towards me, I could judge of the speed sufficiently to speak positively. The Coroner: Do you propose to call the driver? Mr. GIaacodine I do not, but we may call the fireman, who was on the same side as the man. The engineman was on the other side of the engine, and can't give any evidence, but I'll call him if you like. Alfred McMurray, of 20, Watkin-street, engine driver, said: I am in Mr. Dickson's employ, and was driving this engine. I was on the footplate, on the righthand side, where I ought to be. I remember coming to the arch by the Lion stores. There is a slight dip. I checked the steam before taking the dip. I did it then as I always do. If I did not check the engine the trucks would push me down faster than the speed I am allowed to run. The man in front motioned me with his hand to come on. If I had not seen that signal I should have stopped. I went on. and when I heard shouts, I stopped steam and put on the brakes at once. The engine stopped in about two lengths. The speed then was no more than between five and six miles an hour. By Mr. Lawrence I never go at more than five or six miles an hour on this spot. I consider it a dangerous place. By the Coroner We did not divide the train because of a brake that day. We had to knock the brake off. The guard has been fined for it. The engine was quite capable of taking the whole. That was the first time I have known the train divided there. The evidence given by the engineman on this point was incorrect. I have never failed to take six trucks up there. Mr. Edwards asked the Coroner whether he would take evidence as to the use of steam. The Coroner: Will you show me that I have power. Mr. Edwards: There is no common law right to use steam on the streets. There is a House of Lords case on the point, deciding that a machine could not be used without special enactment. Mr. Lawrence asked the Coroner on what ground he dealt differently with this case from the other tramway at Cambrla. The Coroner explained that in the case of the street tramway there was a statute prohibiting the use of steam on a street without special permission of the Board of Trade, but in this case there was no prohibitory enactment. Mr. Lawrence contended that the prohibition applied generally to this as to other lines. The Coroner declined to go into this question, and The Foreman of the jury stated that in his view the jury were not here to decide the legality of the use of steam, but as to the circumstances attending the death. The Coroner, in summing up, said they could not disguise from themselves that this inquiry was a very important one. There was always a certain amount of danger attending the use of steam in places like this. It was not for the advantage of the community that any restraint should be placed upon trade, unless it became absolutely necessary. The question now to be tried was not whether the parties might be liable for damages for personal injuries in case negligence was proved, but rather whether the persons in charge of this dangerous machine were to blame for causing the death of the deceased. If the jury decided that in the affirmative, then the person in charge would be charged with manslaughter. The learned coroner then recapitulated the evidence. The Jury retired for a few minutes, and then the foreman handed in a piece of paper containing the verdict as follows Accidental death. But the jury respectfully request that the trains in this place should not exceed four miles an hour, and that the railway servants for the future should have their attention very particularly drawn to the rules. A flag should be carried by a runner before the train. The rules should be printed and placed conspicuously in the office of the Company, where the employes can see it. The Coroner said he quite agreed both with the verdict and the recommendations.
