The North Wales Chronicle and Advertiser for the Principality
18 July 1831
page 1

STATE, OF THE IRISH PEASANTRY. 

From a Circular published by Mr. Matthews, a Member of the Westport Committee for the relief of the Starving Irish Peasantry, dated the 2d instant, we extract tbe following:-
 I attended the meeting of the centra! Committee at Castlebar, Mayo, and such a catalogue of wretchedness and despair as was there laid before, us by Ministers and Priests; but I can but give you a generalized sketch of it. 
Men in the field falling down over the spade from "very weakness" in the epilepsy of hunger, others with their bowels knotted up into lumps from eating sea weed and unwholesome food and groaning and screaming like maniacs, hundreds wailing and' howling round the Priests and Ministers' houses imploring help, some searching for nettles, borrage, and lambs quarter, for food. 
I passed several thousands at work, roadmaking, earning from 2d to 6d. per day, but their labour was rather the struggle of exhaustion than the ease of strength, the spade was shoved rather than driven, and the pick fell hêlplcssly without force, while, with the child, the maw-worm of hunger had eaten up the playfulness of its youth, and it crawled, with its load of stones to supply the work, like death in motion. 
The next scene was at the soup and medicine delivery, at the Rev. Mr. Stoney's, of Newport, more and more horrible, a thousand human wolves, all dressed in rags and tatters, receiving their pittance of soup, just enough to excite, but not to allay their appetite. Beardless youth exhibiting the pithless legs of famine, and feeble old age the gaunt ribs of death, covered with a skin of shriveled parchment! you might have imagined that the subjects in St. Thomas' dissecting rooms had started into life again and dressed themselves in rag fair. 
But the dispensing of medicine baffles description hundreds rushing in fainting, for medicine, some mistaking the pains of hunger for that of disease. 
"You want food," says the Doctor, No, medicine, medicine, I shall faint, I shall die,"—some in the delirium of slow fevers, from eating un- wholsome food, would form a part of this group of pestilence, and there, in the midst of them, stood the patient minister,—a Job covered with disease one woman in particular in this scene, carrying an infant with the famine-bleached features of marble, shook me almost into a petrefaction,I saw the child suck at her milkless pap until it fainted, whether to death I know not, for my brain reeled, and I could see no more. 
While speaking of the Ministers of religion it is only justice to observe that the most of them round this quarter have set an example of charity unparalleled in the history of the Church; generally giving up their year's stipend and in some cases selling their furniture to raise funds, in fact I have almost as little doubt of the honest appropriation of the annonymous contributions they have received, as though they were a Committee keeping watch over each others actions. 
I have just heard of a man who had fasted three days, after eating voraciously at a meal of potatoes, lity down as if in sleep, and died; another found dead in bed between his wife and child, from starvation! but there is no end of such tales!! 
Scarcely a day or an hour passes without one's hearing fresh reports of the truly horrible and disgusting expedients of the famishing peasantry in the county of Mayo, to pacify the cravings of that hard to be suppressed tyrant hunger, more particutariy those living in the mountains. 
I have just been credibly informed that in this neighbourhood not many days gone by, a poor widow woman, after squeezing the last drop of milk from the almost dry udder of a half starved cow, for her children's supper, actually bled the beast the following morning the blood of wich when boiled she eat for breakfast. Another poor imaciated mortal soliciting relief from a friend of mine, being asked what food he had taken that day, hesitated some considerable time, until at length, with tears in his eyes, he exclaimed, as a last resource to support nature, he that morning had let blood from a horse, which after boiling, horrible necessity, he swallowed. Several cases, equally distressing, have come to my knowledge since sending the above to press, which time and space oblige me to exclude, Dropsy is becoming somewhat prevalent, the oft accompaniment of a long continued low and poor diet.  