The Aberdare Times

15th November 1890

page 2 

IRISH FAMINE FUND ABANDONED. 
The following announcement from the Committee for the relief of the famine in Ireland has appeared:
"The Committee temporarily withdraw their appeal to the American people. 
"At the time the appeal was issued there was no reason to believe that the distress which would follow the failure of the potato crop in Ireland would be relieved otherwise than by American generosity, as no steps had been taken by the British Government to meet the crisis. 
"The first effect of the action of the American Committee was to provoke unchristian and flippant denials from the Tory Press, that any distress existed or that a famine was threatened. But while the situation had not altered there had been provided a promise of relief which would be delegated even to the dire nature of the distress which was at hand. The British Government has been spurred to investigate the danger which threatened the lives of the people and to undertake a system of public works in the distressed districts, which will postpone the advent of the demon of famine. 
"The Committee have good reason to believe that this rapid action of the British Government is largely due to the prompt sympathy and support proffered by this country. Under these circumstances, as the British Government is pledged to prevent distress from coming upon the people, the American Committee are of opinion that there may be no need for sending food or clothing to Ireland from America. 
"This conclusion has been reached after a friendly consultation with the representatives of the Irish people now in this country. It is represented by the Irish envoys that it would introduce an interfering element in Irish politics if aid in any shape should be sent to Ireland by any charitable agency before her present resources have been exhausted. The situation of political Parties in Ireland is peculiar, and the Committee are anxious to avoid creating new complications by interference on their part.
"These representations of the accredited envoys of the Irish people are entitled to consideration so long as there is no immediate danger of actual famine. When that point is reached the committee will renew their appeal to the American people to carryon the relief movement." 