Monmouthshire Merlin
26 September 1835
page 4 

IRISH ITINERANTS. 
The following letter was received on the 14th instant, by a gentleman in W orcester, in answer to an application made by him to the Catholic Archbishop of Dublin, for information on the points alluded to by Dr. Murray. We need hardly state that it is a valuable document at this time, when so much pains are taken by the Exeter Hall worthies to sow dissension between Protestants and Catholics:-
Mountjoy-square, Dublin, Sept. 12, 1835. 
"SIR,—In reply to your letter of the 8th instant, I beg to say, that the itinerant sowers of discord to whom you allude do well to carry their calumnies to a distance, where detection is not easy; here they could have no chance of success. They do not themselves believe, and they could not here get any one to believe that I am an abettor of persecution. Doctrines of that description were attributed to me in London, on the ground that I directed the publication of the now celebrated Doctor Dens' Theology, which advocates the justice of punishing by temporal penalties the crime of heresy, not, however, by private authority, but according to law a doctrine which, at the time he wrote, was unfortunately acted on in all the states of Christendom, Protestant England not excepted. I denied, however, among other things, that I directed the publication of the work, and asserted that it was a mere speculation in trade of a bookseller, who, undertook it at his own risk. I never said, as you seem to have heard, that I did not permit it; for I would think it very unjustifiable to interfere with the fair speculation of a bookseller on the probable profits of a work, which, taken as a whole, is a valuable compilation, though it may contain some objectionable opinions, which, however, in the present state of society, are practically harmless. Of this nature is his opinion regarding the punishment of heresy. This doctrine, as far regards any practical effects resulting from it, is everywhere losing ground. The spirit of toleration is rapidly on the advance. The Catholic States of Poland and Hungary were among the foremost to lead the way Ireland, under Queen Mary, had previously set them the example. The states which embraced the Protestant Reformation urged on by the first reformers, carried intoleronce to a frightful, extent; and the tenacity with which they clung to it so long should make the professors of that religion exceedingly cautious in advancing charges of intolerance against the professors of any other. Whoever wishes to compare Protestant with Catholic intolerance, will be enabled to do so by reading the 49th letter In Dr. Milner's End of Religious Controversy, and the 4th of the same author's letters to a Prebendary. 
But it is said that the work of Dens was dedicated to me that the publisher says it was undertaken with my approbation, and that therefore in my letter to Lord Melbourne i must have told a falsehood, when I said that I did not direct the publication of it. Surely there is no contradiction in these two statements. Allowing that what the publisher says in commendation of his work is true —allowing that I assented to his plan, surely it does not follow that it was undertaken at my instance, or that 'I directed the publication of it.' That was the original charge that was brought against me and that is the charge which I denied, and do still deny. As to the abstraction of the dedication from some of the copies, I know nothing whatever about it. In the copy which I possess it is very conspicuous. I cannot but feel obliged to the publisher for the compliment which he thus intended to pay me but I do not on that account consider myself bound to adopt all the opinions of his author. There is no similar author that has any authority whatever for the support of his opinions beyond what is derived from the arguments which he employs and all the reasons that Dens could adduce in support of intolerant opinions are utterly inoperative against that solemn oath taken by the Catholic clergy and laity of Ireland, as prescribed by the Act 33d George III., chap. 21. 
"'I, A B, do swear that I abjure, condemn, and detest, as unchristian and impious, the principle, that it is lawful to murder, destroy, or in any wise injure any person whatsoever, for or under pretence of being a heretic.' 
Among my calumniators some very sagacious persons endevoured to place my actions in contradiction with my declarations, by asserting that I was one of a meeting of Bishops held in Dublin in 1808, which meeting is said to have 'agreed that Dens complete Body of Theology was the best book on the subject that could be republished.' 
Whether or not such an episcopal declaration was made, I never heard, except through the publisher's advertisment; but it is at all events quite clear, that if it was, I at least could have had no participation in it; for I was not then a bishop, but engaged in the duties of the more meritorious office of a working curate. Observe now the kind of proof by which it is sought to connect me with this meeting. In 1826 my name is found among the Irish Bishops, disavowing certain intolerant and antisocial doctrines, and therefore it is assumed that I must have eighteen years before among the supposed episcopal approvers of Dens' complete Body of Theology! Is it not wise in these calumniators, when they wish to circulate their impostures, to go a distance from home? 
"I have the honour to be, Sir, 
"Your obedient servant, 
"+ D. MURRAY." 
MONMOUTH: 
Printed and Published by the sole Proprietor, EDWARD DOWLING, at his General Printing Office and Residence; Monnow-street. London Agents:—Messrs. Newton and Co., Warwick-square Mr. R. Barker, 33, Fleet-street; Mr. G. lleynell, 42, Chancery-lane; and Mr. S. Deacon,Coffee-house, No. 3, Walbrook near the Mansion House, where this Paper is regularly filed. Agents for Ireland, Johnston and Co., Eden Quay, Dublin. 