
Evening Express
17th October 1898
Welsh Newspapers Online - The National Library of Wales
LOUISE MICHEL ON 
"FRANCE." 
The Trend of Events towards a Revolution. 
Louise Michel on Sunday afternoon delivered the first lecture under the auspices of the newly-formed Libertarian Lecture Society at the Athenaeum Hall, Tottenham-court-road. Choosing for her subject, "The Situation in France," she said that during the past six and twenty years the current of thought among the people of France had moved towards an ocean of chaos, and something should be done at once to prevent a catastrophe. The movement was too quick for slow action, as the trend of events and the circumstances of the present day was in the direction of revolution. The present was a time of great danger, and a feeling of hate together with an intense love and a desire for liberty were abroad. The great power of France in the present day was the Army, which was so developed and disciplined that the soldiers would kill their own fathers and mothers if ordered to do so by their officers. This state of affairs was chiefly the fault, not of the people, but of the institutions of France. Although the Army was popular, the people had no enthusiasm for slaughter. However badly France was governed, the people were not demoralised entirely. 
So great had become the tension, however, that all that was needed to bring about a catastrophe was a great leader—a despot who would lead the people to slaughter. The great mass of the people did not know what to believe, and revolt was in the air, the people feeling that their masters were their worst enemies. The people were tired of words and were looking for heroes. France had never been Republic except in name, and a civilised people could not put up with a state of things as at present. France was no longer a gay country—it was now a sombre land. What the best thinkers wished to do was to work for the solidarity of the human race. The aim of the Government should be not to extend Colonies or to have a large Army, but to make the people happy. There would assuredly be a strike of the whole nation against the oppressors. A century ago the people destroyed the Bastille. At the present day they had a much larger bastille to be demolished. 
