Welsh Newspapers Online - The National Library of Wales
South Wales Echo
24th November 1887
Page 3
Suspected Murder at Morriston. 
Mysterious Disappearance of a Girl. 
The Body Found in the Canal. 
At the Midland Hotel, Morriston, on Tuesday evening, Mr Edward Strick, the county coroner, held an inquiry into the circumstances attending the death of Hannah Rosser, a young woman, whose body was found in the canal, near Ynysforgan Bridge, a day or two ago.—The first witness examined was Maria Griffiths, wife of Richard Griffiths, Neath-road, Llansamlet. She identified the body as that of her sister, who was 18 years of age, and who was recently a domestic servant in the employ of Mr Eastman, fruiterer, Castle street, Swansea. On Monday, 31st October, deceased came home, having had a fit. Deceased went into the town the same evening, and, having purchased a dolman and hat, returned shortly after ten o'clock apparently in her usual health and spirits. When not in service deceased lived at home with her parents, with whom she was on good terms. She went out on the following Thursday (November 3rd), with the intention of going to town, but she did not return, and had not been seen alive since that time. She was keeping company with a young man named J. Williams, who lived in Dillwyn-street, Morriston, and in whose company she was seen on the I previous Sunday. Witness first heard of her sister's death on Monday morning last.—Elizabeth Walters, house-keeper to Mr Eastman, said deceased came there on a months trial as a general servant. She had a fit about a fortnight after coming there, remaining in it about half-an-hour. At the end of the month deceased left. Witness had not seen her since.-Dr Edward Rice Morgan, Morriston, said, in accordance with instructions, he had examined the body, which had evidently been in the water several days. On examining the right side of the head, he found a clean cut wound extending from the right ear inwards and through the bone and into the eye ball, horizontally. It showed evidence of having being caused by great force being used. Above that, on the forehead, on the same side, there was a clean cut an inch long, and another about three inches long at the junction of the hair with the forehead in the bone. At right angles to that. in the centre of the forehead was a clean cut from two to three inches long, On the top of the head was a fearful wound extending through the skull and the bone to the brain. The cut was a clean cut and was about four inches in length, and the brain was exposed. At the back of the head were two more cuts, which extended down to the bone, and which were from two to three inches long. There were no marks of bruises on the body, and the cuts must have been caused by a sharp iustrument, used with much force. In his opinion the wounds could not have been caused by barges proceeding up and down the canal, and there were no marks on the body to indicate that it had been in any way injured by barges. The wounds were not such as could have been self-inflicted, and the fact that deceased had gloves on, which were unbroken, seemed to denote that no violent struggle had taken place, or the gloves would have been torn.—David Williams, Ynismedw, said that whilst bringing a barge of shearing up the canal from the tin works, his attention was drawn by a man in the barge to a body in the water just above Ynisforgan Bridge. He immediately took the boat-hook, and brought it to the embankment, when it was shortly afterwards taken charge of by P.C. Evans.-The Coroner said the case was one which threw grave suspicion on somebody. When he ordered the doctor to make an examination he was not prepared for the evidence which they had heard that day. The case was one which should be thoroughly investigated, and he would adjourn the inquiry.

South Wales Echo
25th November 1887
Page 4

  The Morriston Mystery, 
A VISIT TO THE SCENE. 
The Coroner's Inquiry. 
FURTHER REVELATIONS. 
Swansea Vale, unused, peaceful home of varied industry that it is, to any manifestation of the horrible or the mysterious, has been deeply stirred by the tragic end of the young Morriston woman, Hannah Rosser. Opinion as to the cause of the event is divided in Morriston. The relatives of the deceased are inclined to believe that the girl committed suicide, and were it not for the medical evidence, the inquiries I have made would have led me to a similar conclusion. Everything, in fact, tends to the support of this theory, and the police, who would be quick to scent out any more tragic hypothesis, strongly incline to the idea of self-destruction. Superintendent Howlet's questions at the inquest were made almost entirely upon this assumption. The parents of the deceased live in a humble cottage opposite an old-fashioned hostelry called "The Travellers' Rest," situate about half-way between Morriston and the little village of Llansamlet. Deceased's father is a blacksmith, and is employed in the Beaufort Tin Works hard by. The young girl, who was eighteen years of age, before taking a situation in Swansea was engaged for about six months as a domestic servant in Llansamlet. Here she appears to have given fair satisfaction, but in Swansea she was declared incompetent, and at the end of a month returned home. This was three weeks ago last Monday. On the Saturday before this she had been visited by her mother. What took place between them is not known, but that the deceased was greatly agitated after the visit can be attested. On the Sunday she is known to have gone for a walk with a young man named Williams, who resides at Dilhwyn-street, Morriston, and is a fellow-workman with deceased's brother. She bad arranged to meet Williams in the Hafod on the Tuesday evening following, and appears to have kept her appointment, though Williams on that evening went to the Prince of Wales Theatre in Morris-ton, and consequently did not see her. The girl returned home, having made a few purchases in Swansea, and it appears that between that time and the Thursday evening following some words passed between her mother and herself. The mother accused the girl of being enceinte. As a young girl she had been exceedingly slight, but on going to service in Swansea she got stouter, and on this her mother placed a construction which was cruelly incorrect. The poor girl strenuously denied the charge made against her, and the evidence of the post-mortem examination confirms the truth of her denial. Smarting under the accusation brought against her, the girl threatened to commit suicide, and the next act in the drama is the discovery of her corpse. On the other hand it is asserted that while in her situation in Swansea she was seized with a fit, and, believing that this was the cause of her losing her situation, she became depressed, and thoughts of suicide crossed her mind—thoughts that found utterance in words, which some of the witnesses depose to. It is true that she had a fit while in service at Mr Eastman s, fruiterer, in Castle-street, but that this was the cause of her leaving her place is quite incorrect. On the Wednesday night she remained at home, but late on Thursday alter-noon she decided upon going out-to town, as she said. She left the house, and from that time until Monday last not a breath was heard of her or her fate. On Monday morning her mutilated body was dragged out of the canal. and the doctors, upon examining it, declared she had been brutally murdered. By what means, or for what reason, the life of this poor, inoffensive girl should have been taken is a mystery which enquiry does not tend to solve. For murder there is, in point of fact, no assignable motive whatever, nor is the theory that she thus came to her untimely end at all entertained except by the doctor who made the examination. The place of the tragedy is at once lonely and romantic. It is a favourite summer walk for lovers, and from its seclusion is at once an ideal spot for love-making or for crime. From Ynysforgan Bridge the canal winds through a wooded grove, the trees on one side forming an umbrageous canopy, and the undergrowth from the eloping bank across almost meeting above the water. In the day time the path-way has a sombre aspect, but at night it is positively ghostly in its silence and gloom. It is suggested that here, on a dark and stormy night, the young girl was waylaid, murdered, and con-signed to a watery gravu. In face of the facts adduced, tho absurdity of the hypothesis is self-evident. Not the ghost of a motive is either alleged or — so far — allegeable. The inquest, which opened at four o'clock in the afternoon, did not add much to the solution of the mystery, The evidence of Dr Morgan was singularly positive, He had no doubt whatever but that the girl had met with a violent death. The wounds which he found on the head were ante-mortem, and had caused death, which, he believed, ensued before the deceased was (on this theory) thrown into the canal. The post-mortem examination showed that, whenever death took place, it was within two hours of the girl having partaken of a meal, as un-digested food was found in the stomach. The jury did not take kindly to the theory of murder, and by a series of questions endeavoured to elicit information shewing that death might have resulted from a fit, and the wounds from the body falling into the canal and coming in contact with the propellers of a twin-screw tug. Dr. Morgan could not accept this explanation, though that it may explain what now appears in-explicable is just possible. The young fellow Williams, who had walked with the deceased, requested to be sworn, and the coroner gratified his desire,but remarked that he did not think wit-ness could add much to their knowledge. Williams simply denied that he knew anything about the tragedy, and the inquiry closed, the coroner remarking that if the case was one of murder, be would rather look for the criminal among those who had departed from the district than among those who had not. The remains of the deceased were interred in Bethel Graveyard, Morris-ton, on Wednesday. 
THE INQUEST. 
The adjourned inquest on the body of Hannah Rosser, whose body was found in the canal at Morriston, in circumstances already reported, was held on Thursday evening, at the Midland Hotel, before Mr E. Strick, the county coroner. Interest seemed to be very slight,as the only people visible near the place of the inquiry were the jurors, the witnesses, and a large array of representatives of the press. The police, on being interviewed, expressed confidence that they could prove that deceased met with her death by suicide, for she had been heard to threaten self-destruction, and there was some sort of motive for such a deed in a girl of naturally hysterical tendencies. 
THE DOCTOR'S EVIDENCE. 
The Coroner. at the outset, said he proposed first to recall Dr E. Rico Morgan, who, at the original inquiry, was instructed by him to make a post-mortem examination, with the object of discovering, if possible, more definitely how certain marks on the body of the deceased were inflicted, and what was the cause of death. Dr Morgan then said Acting on your instructions, I made a post-mortem examination of the body of the deceased, Mr George Kelman, M.B., acting as my assistant. In following up the external examination we found two small indentations at the back of the skull, triangular in shape. We found another clean cut on the right eye, on the external angle or orbit, extending through the malar bone. On the left side of the face was a clean cut along the inner angle of the orbit, extending downwards and inwards along the nose, two inches long, fracturing both nasal bones. At the left angle of the mouth was a cut through the cheek about one inch long. Corresponding was a deep cut in the left side of the tongue. In the centre of the tongue, about a quarter of an inch of the tip, was a small punctured wound extending through. There were several other incised wounds on the upper surface of the tongue ecchymosed, shewing that pressure had been used as well as puncture, probably caused by the teeth. Three front teeth on the lower jaw had been knocked out. 
The Coroner: Do you mean they had been broken out ? 
Dr Morgan: No; there was evidence that they had been recently forced out of their sockets. The right incisor tooth of the upper jaw had its front knocked off. In the throat were two dark ecchymosed round marks. These were produced before death. There was a slight abrasion over the left collar-bone. On the outer side of the lower third of the left foreleg there was a hole in the stocking, and corresponding with that was a fracture of the small bone of the leg. I have no doubt in my mind that this was produced after death, for there was no discolouration of the skin, and,as such a wound could not have been produced without violence, that would be evidenced on the skin. That is all I saw on the exterior of the body. Then we examined the brain. This was all healthy except on the top surface, and corresponding with a cut through the skull. All the membranes were cut through, and the cut extended about one inch into the substance of the brain. 
The Coroner: This must have been caused with considerable force ? 
Dr Morgan: Unquestionably. The blow must have been a very severe one, and inflicted with a sharp-edged instrument, such as a chopper, or anything of that description. We then opened the lungs. Both were deeply eugorged with blood, but otherwise healthy. They showed no evidence of any water having entered them. On examining the heart I found that externally it was healthy. On opening the cavities we found no clots. They (the cavities) were all empty. The windpipe was quite healthy inside, and free from any grit or sand. The stomach contained a large quantity of undigested food, which shewed that she had taken a meal two hours previous to death. 
DEATH NOT CAUSED BY DROWNING. 
The absence of water in the lungs and stomach, the absence of any grit in the windpipe, the emptiness of the cavities of the heart, and the absence of any foreign body or substance in the mouth, go to prove that death did not result from drowning. The other organs—liver, kidneys, &c. -were all healthy, and the womb showed the absence of any indication of the deceased being enceinte. There were no signs either of any attempt at violence. 
DR. MORGAN'S THEORY. 
Summing up the result of my examination, I am inclined to the belief that the first blow was given on the top of the head, for this it confirmed by the indentations on the tongue and the in-juries to the teeth, which, I believe were caused by the force of the blow. This blow would stun her, and she probably would fall, but death would not be instantaneous, and I think the other wounds were inflicted after she had fallen. The first blow, from the loss of blood alone, would, in course of time, be sufficient to kill her. 
The Coroner: Do you think this had occurred, and then she was immediately thrown into the water ? 
Dr Morgan: That depends. Had she been insensible, and then thrown in, she would have breathed water. Had she fallen in. the water in an apoplectic fit, she might not have absorbed water in the lungs, but during other kinds of fits she would have done so. The blows were caused before death or immediately after. In combination with others, the first blow caused death- shock and loss of blood. Death ensued in about 30 seconds. In conclusion, Dr. Morgan said this was a very important matter, and he should like the gentleman who assisted him in the examina-tion to be called to confirm his evidence. 
The coroner replied that if anything serious arose out of the case, that would be necessary before the magistrates. Dr Morgan wished for an opportunity to con-tradict a statement made on his authority that the body had only been in the water from eight to nine days. It might have been in a longer or a shorter period. 
Superintendent Howlett (to the witness): Supposing a person fell down on the canal bank in a fit, and slid into the water. would she breath while in the water ? 
Answer: Oh, yes water would be absorbed into the lungs and into the stomach. One could breathe while thoroughly under water. The mouth was not necessarily closed while one is insensible, and then breath might come through the nostrils. A person in a fit could breathe unless the fit was one of apoplexy, when a, person was almost comatose. An apopleptic fit might have caused the wound to the tongue. But any theory as to a fit was exploded by the state of the heart and lungs. After examination of a flange of the screw of a steamer which plies on the canal, be said the wounds would not by it be so clean cut as they were. He had thought the matter over very carefully, and he did not think it possible those blows could be produced by the revolving screw of a steamer, with a flange of a similar description to that produced. He did not remember the death of Mrs Barton,who, after falling into the canal some years ago, was cut to pieces by the screw of a steamer. 
NO STRUGGLE. 
Deceased had her glover on, and these indicated the absence of a struggle. He would examine the screw to see if it were possible for the wounds to have been caused by it if deceased's body came in contact with it immediately she fell into the water. 
SHE THREATENED TO COMMIT SUICIDE. 
Susannah Andrews, the wife of a collier, said she lived next door but one to the residence of the parents of the deceased. She last saw the deceased on the night before she went away. She remembered her coming home from her situation on the Monday night before she was missed. She went into her (witness's) house about 10.30 p.m., and began to cry. She said she was very much vexed, because she had had a fit at the house where she was in service. She said she had a good mind to go and make an end of herself before she came home. She was afraid that, in consequence of the fit, she would lose her situation. If they were to say a cross word to her in the house she would go and do it at once. She added that what broke her heart was that her mistress told her to go home, for she was ashamed at keeping a situation so short a time. Late on Thursday evening witness saw deceased washing her face preparatory to going out. Witness advised her not to go out, as the weather was very bad, and the shops were shut. She said in a very determined manner, "I am bound to go." A few hours previously deceased had expressed her intention of seeking a fresh situation. 
Thomas Beard, a boatman, said he steered a small screw steamer which plied on the canal. On Saturday afternoon last he was steering the boat between Ynistawe and Ynieforgan bridges when he saw that something had got in the fan. He stopped the boat, and whatever was entangled with the screw then got loose, and he proceeded without further incident to Swansea. The screw seemed to rip something. Had seen dogs and other animals which had been knocked up from the bottom of the canal by the screw of the engine, and, on examining them, had found that they bore cuts. 
At this stage, the Coroner said he thought it advisable to adjourn the inquiry in order that it might be seen if the wounds could have been caused by the action of the propeller. After that they would, at any rate, be in a position to form a conclusion as to how death occurred, or what caused the wounds. 
Superintendent Howlett said he had other witnesses in attendance, and the Coroner decided to hear them. Mrs Walters said she did not know the deceased to keep company with any man. 
James Williams, a tinman, said he knew the deceased, but had not seen her since last, month, when she was in service at Swansea. He denied that he had been keeping company with her. He did not meet her on the occasion mentioned by previous appointment. 
The inquiry was then adjourned for a week. 
