Welsh Newspapers Online
Pioneer
3rd May 1919
Page 1
The Importance of Money. 
TO THE EDITOR. 
Dear Sir,—I have read with much interest the comments of Mr. John Barr on my letter that was published in the Labour Leader," two or three weeks ago. 
(1) Mr. Barr beings his letter rather badly by misconstruing my quotation of the late Keir Hardie's reply to me. In my letter I stated that Mr. Keir Hardie and other of his associates told me that they did not understand the money question. Mr. Hardie, of whom I have always had the highest esteem and who was one of the most honest and sincerest champions of the rights of labour, acknowledged with a good deal of regret that he was unfamiliar with the whole subject. Mr. Barr twists my remark into something quite different by saying that he could quite imagine Mr. Hardie "failing to see the benefit of pursuing this subject." Mr. Hardie saw nothing of the sort, and I am considerably surprised that Mr. Barr should stoop to a perversion of my remarks as he has done. 
(2) The fact that the Labour leaders in this country have failed to pursue the study of finance, in my judgment has been due to the fact that the so-called authorities, such as Karl Marx, fail to understand the subject themselves. A few expressions of opinion that have been given by men like Sidney Webb, indicate an entire misapprehension of the whole subject. 
(3) It is indeed surprising to find a Socialist quoting the works of a writer like Professor Laughlin with approval. Professor Laughlin was the champion of the money monopolists in America during the great bimetallic controversy, and was employed by Rockerfeller and the leading financiers of the United States for the purpose of influencing public opinion to enable them to secure control of the national credit. It is quite in line with the arguments that were used by the great Bankers of New York and Chicago to represent money as necessarily a valuable commodity, in order to convince the public of the danger of using the people's credit in the form of paper currency. How Labour can possibly benefit from this theory, it would be interesting to see. I notice that Mr. Barr does not attempt to explain matters. 
(4). It is quite true that in a society where there is no form of Government and where people are unable to trust each other, some commodity-form of exchange is probably necessary. But when nations have arrived at a certain stage where honesty is the very basis of social existence, the barter system is entirely unnecessary, and money can then assume a totally different form from what is necessary in a semi-civilised community. When a man gives goods for his labour, all he asks in exchange is some token which will ensure to him such products and satisfaction as he may desire at some future time. These tokens need not take the form of the precious metals. Indeed, it would be just as reasonable to make theatre tickets and postage stamps out of precious metals as to think of making legal tender out of them. The history of all nations for the last century or two proves beyond any question that paper money is not only a perfectly safe and just means of exchange, but that it is far better in every way than the precious metals, for the reason that it can be increased as needed to meet the needs of trade, whereas with the precious metals, these are liable to be exported and hoarded and cannot be increased except through the accidents of gold and silver mining. 
(5) Again I find that Mr. J. Barr quotes the German writer, Menger, another staunch supporter of Capitalism, and whose writings are mainly for the purpose of bolstering up the system of usury which Socialism is out to destroy. "Money," says Mr. Barr, "is not a fiat of Government." if Mr. Barr can point to a single civilised country in the world where money is not a fiat of Government, I will immediately grant him his point. How any intelligent man can make such a bare-faced statement against all the evidence to the contrary, it is difficult to understand. What was it that made silver the sole money at a certain period of the world's history? What made it rank equal with gold so that all one had to do to use silver as a medium of exchange was to take it to the mint and have it coined? Was not this the fiat of Government? And what was it that destroyed half of the value of silver in the 90's? Was it not due to the fact that the United States and India and other countries demonetised it-except as token coinage? Does Mr. Barr seriously assert that our Treasury notes would still circulate as money if the Government were to repudiate them and to declare that they are not legal tender? The very term "legal tender" means "fiat of Government." If money is not the creation of law, what in the name of commonsense is the meaning of "monetising" and "demonetising?" 
(6) I am afraid that Mr. J. Barr has got his mind very much mixed up through reading the strange assortment of literature that he mentions in his letters. He recommends the reading of Mr. Hartley Withers books, notwithstanding the fact that Mr. Hartley Withers is to-day the champion of the monopolistic banking interests! Mr. Barr surely does not expect to find the money-lending interests in the same boat with the interests of Labour? By all means let those who are seeking information on financial matters read Mr. Wither's most interesting books. Indeed I know of nothing that will convince an intelligent man of the utter weakness and unscientific character of the gold-standard monetary system, as a careful reading of Mr. Withers' works. 
(7) I should like to add the name of another work to Mr. Barr. If he will take the trouble to secure a copy of Professor Irving Fisher's book entitled "The Purchasing Power of Money," he will see a complete exposure of the heresies of Professor Laughlin as well as those with which he himself is so misled. Professor Fisher ranks as one of the most scientific economists living, and although I do not agree with all his conclusions, I do agree with those which he is able to prove on scientific lines. One of the truths that he has succeeded in establishing is what is known as the "Quantity Theory," which was enunciated by John Stuart Mill. This theory is that the value of money depends upon the quantity in circulation multiplied, by its velocity of circulation, regardless of what the money is made of. This theory has been proved so often in practice that no one would think of questioning it except the man who does not understand it. It means that if we have 100,000,000 golden sovereigns in circulation and we replace these with 100,000,000 £1 Treasury Notes, the purchasing power of each Treasury Note will be exactly the same as that of the sovereign which has been displaced. It is curious indeed to find that Mr. j. Barr actually endorses this in one part of his letter when he savs: "That if 100,000,000 of gold coins was required at a given time to circulate the commodities to be exchanged, then 100,000,000 of paper notes or any other valueless token with the Government imprimature would do the work." Here is a complete admission of my claims. Moreover, it is also an admission of the fact that the Government stamp is essential to make the money. If not, why the necessity of "The Government imprimature?" 
(8) No legal token or coin can possibly function as money without performing the function of what Mr. Barr calls "measuring values." What is it that "measures" values? Is it the metal that is in the coin or is it the number Of coins circulating? Evidently it must be the latter, for the reason that if you double the number of coins according to the "Quantity Theory," you halve their value. In fact, Mr. Barr practically admits this when he speaks of "over-stepping the limit of circulation." Mr. Barr is therefore entirely in error when he says that paper tokens cannot serve as "a measure of value." On the contrary, they serve precisely in this capacity as golden sovereigns do. 
(9) All nations have had to use so-called inconvertible paper notes during times of great political crises, and on every occasion these paper notes have saved them as it has saved us during the war. It was paper money that enabled America to wage her War of Independence, and as George Washington once said: "It was these paper notes that did as much to win our independence as the sword." The historical examples which Mr. Barr refers to are of course the same old "bogies" that are always trotted out by the bankers whenever they wish to frighten the public against paper money. John Law's notes were working quite satisfactorily until the French Government insisted upon limited issues for indulging their gambling propensities. Indeed, Law has been condemned for having done what he was compelled to do, and which his judgment told him was foolish. It is not the use, but the abuse of paper money that produces so much harm. 
(10) The importance of money to the working classes is shown by the fact that the distribution of the products of labour are made entirely by means of money, and the scarcer the money the more difficult it is for labour to secure employment and the greater the proportion of the annual product falls into the hands of the money-lenders. The gold-system fosters usury and for this reason it has been so steadfastly maintained by the great monopolists in all countries. As to the cost of production, since the use of gold as money has become a universal monopoly by law, its cost doesn't enter into the problem except to determine whether it will circulate or not.- Whilst cost of production functions in one direction, it certainly does not operate in the other. Gold has nearly always been greatly over-valued. Does Mr. Barr realise that a return to the gold currency will mean industrial depression, unemployment, a, reduction in our annual output of wealth, a reduction of wages and a doubling of all debts, including the National Debt? 
My claim is that money should be a valueless token issued by the Government and strictly limited to the needs and demands of trade, industry and commerce. 
With money issued under proper conditions, interest would die a natural death and instead of usury exacting—as it does at present-about 25 per cent. of the total products of labour, this same amount would go Into the pockets of the 1 producing classes. Surely this is an object worth working for and a subject which is worth the attention of not only every Labour leader but every member of the Labour Party.-Yours faithfully. 
ARTHUR KITSON 
Stamford Lines., 
April 2oth, 1919. 
