SOUTH WALES DAILY NEWS
9th February 1880

CLERICAL INFLUENCE IN AUSTRIAN SCHOOLS

VIENNA, Saturday. - In today's sitting of the Lower House of Reichsrath an interpellation signed by Herr Menger and his political friends was introduced, on the subject of the petition recently persented by the four bishops of Behemia to the Minister of Public Worship, asking for the re-establishment of clerical influence in the public schools, The interpellation describes this petition as a menace to the domestice peace of the country, and asks what the Government contemplates doing to ward off such attacks.

MERTHYR TIMES AND DOWLAIS TIMES AND ABERDARE ECHO
17th December 1896

THE BISMARCK REVELATIONS
ATTACK ON THE TRIPLE ALLIANCE

During the debate in the Lower House of the Austrian Reichsrath on December 12 on the clause of the Budget relating to Austria's contributions to the expenditure connected with the common affairs of Austria and Hungary, Herr Vasaty vigourously attacked the Triple Alliance. He declared that it had been formed by Prince Bismarck only form necessity, after his advances to Russia had met with repeated rebuffs. He referred in support of his statements to the recent revelations in Germany. M.Slama, Young Czech, declared that Herr Vasaty's assertions were not worth noticing. Herr Menger, replying to Herr Vasaty's arguments, said that Austria's relations with Russia, which were in no way hostile, but, on the contrary, friendly, were certainly to Austria's advantage, and perhaps also to Russia's. The Triple Alliance was the basis of Austria's policy, and would probably remain so for many years. He and those of his party cherished the wish, which they had never concealed, that the alliance might even assume a closer form, and that Germany and Austria might enter into a permanent political league. Her Stephanowski, the reporter, also spoke in refutation of Herr Vasaty's attacks on the Triple Alliance. The item under discussion was then adopted.
THE WESTERN MAIL
19th November 1892

THE WORLDS NEWS
SPECIAL CABLEGRAMS THROUGH DALZIELS, REUTERS, AND NEWS AGENCIES.

-----------------------------------------
THE FRENCH MINISTERIAL CRISIS.
VICTORY OF THE GOVERNMENT.
Paris, Friday (Reuter). - After a somewhat prolonged and excited discussion in the cabinet today, a decisive vote was taken on the motion. "That the Chamber do now proceed to the discussion of the clauses of the ??? for amending the Press Law." The ????? of the division was :-
	For the Government .........329
	Against ....................228
				    ---
	Majority of the Government .101

M. Floquet, the Premier, who spoke ??? the end of the debate, said he was ??? to reply to the attacks on the general ???? of the Government, gut he would not ??? to the Press Bill being mixed ?? with matters of general policy. ??? interruptions caused the Minister to pause for a moment. Proceeding, ???. You make the exercise of power very difficult. The men who should defend the ??? powers of the Republic have for ??? days past been propunding from the ??? claims of all the political schools. I ??? to be hampered by the doctrines of any ???. The Government is charged with not enforcing the laws. Let proofs of the truth of this charge be given. I am ready to answer the accusations as soon as the Press Bill is voted. (Murmurs.) Reference has agian been made to the Carmaux strike. If mis??? have been made I can only say errare humanum est. (Prolonged murmurs.) I have ??? my utmost to maintain order I will engage no longer in discussion. I am worn out with it all. The closing words of the Premier produced great impression in an agitated House. When the excitement had subsided M. Purquet de ??? stated that the measure would lead to the abolition of all liberties, especially durin election times. The present laws were in his opinion, quite adequate. M. Ricard, Minister of Justice, denied the assertions fo the last speaker, pointing out that the measure expressly specified cases in which prosecutions should be undertaken. In conclusion, he mainteained the inadequacy of the present law regarding the Press. Later on, M. Loubet declared that he would regard the House's refusal to pass discussion of the caluses of teh measure as a vote of want of confidence. Urgency for the bill having been asked for and agreed to by the House, the vote was taken and resulted a above mentioned. The debate was then adjourned til tomorrow, and the House rose.
PARIS, Friday (Dalziel).- Some sensational information with reference to the Panama Canal Company is published in tonight's ???rde. This journal states that M Delahaye intends questioning M. Floquet in the Chamber with reference to a sum of 300,00f. which, he contends, M. Floquet compelled the Panama Company to pay the Government at the time of the candidature of Beneral Boulanger in December, 1888. It appears that at that moment there were no more secret funds at the disposal of the Government, and it became absolutely necessary to provide money to run a candidate in opposition to General Boulanger. Floquet asked the Panama Canal Company for it. Thedirectors, being mainly in sympathy with the Boulangists, refused, and, thereupon, M. Floquet threatened that unless money was provided the Government would no longer sanction the company's lotteries
-------------------------------
SCENE IN THE AUSTRIAN REICHSTAG
THE CZECH DEPUTIES DECLARED TRAITORS

VIENNA, Friday (Reuter). - An extraordinary scene occurred today in the Lower House of the Reichstag. In the course of the debate on the Budget Herr Menger, a member of the German Liberal party, addressing the young Czech deputies shouted: "To speak at the present time of the Bohemian Constitution is nothing short of high treason. You are traitors." A scene of indescribable tumult and confusion thereupon ensued, in the midst of which a number of young Czechs and other deputies began crowding in a threatened manner round the seat occupied by Her Menger. The latter was called to order by the President, but this failed to satisfy the Bohemians or to allay the storm. While Herr Menger was still endeavouring to make himself heard the President once more interposed and ordered the sitting to be closed.
--------------------------------------
THE PARIS DYNAMITE OUTRAGE
PROBABLE CAPTURE OF THE PERPETRATOR

PARIS, Friday (Dalziel). - The Soleil today repeats the rumour that the authors of the explosion in the Rue des Bons Enfants are known to the police. It is stated that the actual perpetrator of the outrage has left the country by sea, and that an order has been issued for his arrest at the first port the vessel touches.

THE EXTRADITION OF FRANCOIS.
 
PARIS, Friday (Reuter).It is announced that the extradition of Francois, on the charge of complicity in the Cafe Very explosion, has created great disappointment amongst the Anarchists here, who by no means expected that he would be handed over to the frenoh authorities. It is rumoured that the Prefecture of Police has recieved a warning that, if the decision is confirmed on appeal, fresh explosions will occur, and that outrages will in that case be more especially directed against the British Embassy. 

BISMARCK'S CONFESSION. 
CONFIRMED BY COUNT BENEDETTI. 
PARIS, Friday (Reuter).— Count Benedetti, who was French Ambassador to Germany in 1870, in an interview on Wednesday with a representative of the Gaulois, is reported to have fully confirmed Prince Bismarck's revelations respecting the alterations made by the ex-Chancellor in the celebrated Ems dispatch, which precipitated the conflict between the two countries. The count, in fact, throws upon Prince Bismarck the entire responsibility for the declaration of war. 
THE SOCIALIST CONGRESS. 
BERLIN, Friday (Central News).— At today's sitting Herr Liebknecht read a paper on "State Socialism," which he declared the Social Democrats rejected. This was embodied in a resolution and carried. Herr Vollmar, whose quarrel with Herr Liebknecht has been notorious, seconded the resolution, declaring his views agreed with those of the former speaker. His speech showed that the quarrel has been healed, and indicates that the recent disunion in the ranks of the Social Demoorats no longer exists.

THE STRIKE AT HOMESTEAD. 
PARTIAL COLLAPSE
PITTSBURG, Friday (Reuter).— The first important collapse has occurred in the strike movement at Homestead, 150 of the men having resumed work at Carnegie's Mill. The trial of the strikers charged with the murder of the Pinkerton detectives began today. 

THE BRITISH COLUMBIAN COURT MARTIAL—RESULT. 
VICTORIA (BRITISH COLUMBIA), Thursday (Reuter).- The court-martial on Captain the Hon. H. Lambton and Staff-commander Bawden, of her Majesty's cruiser Warapite, terminated to-day. The officers were declared not guilty of the charge of careless navigation, but the oourt reprimanded them for not paying sufficient attention to the "Notes on Navigation" for her Majesty's ships.

ENGLISH CRICKETERS IN COLOMBO. 
COLOMBO, Friday (Reuter).— The English criketers today began a match up country against a planters' team. The visitors were the first to go to the wickets, and ran up a total of 237, to which Mr, C. Wright contributed 53, Mr. Hill 21, and Mr. Jackson 109. The planters then went in, and when play closed for the day had made 77 runs for seven wickets.

ENGLAND AND UGANDA
FURTHER SURVEYS FOR THE GOVERNMENT. 
The Press Association understands that Cuptain McDonald, who recently made the survey for the proposed railway from Mombasa to Uganda, has been sent back to East Africa to make further surveys and Inquiries for the British Government. 

THE CLUTTERBUCK FRAUDS. 
DEATH OF THE REVEREND CONVICT. 
The Central News Weymouth correspondent telegraphs:— The death occurred on Friday at Portland Convict Prison of the Rev. Dr. Clutterbuck, who was sentenced at the Sumerset Assises last year to four years' penal seivitude for obtaining upwards of £16,000 by false pretences. The deceased had been an inmate of the prison infirmary since the beginning of the month. Death was due to syncope.
---------------------------

BETTING ON THE PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION. 
400,000 DOLLARS AT STAKE IN NEW YORK. 
A bad feature in the late Presidential election was the heavv betting, which was unprecedented. One man in New York (says the Chronicle) claims to have held 100,000dols. of slakes, from even money to 10 to 9, on the general result. Michael F. Dwyer was a persistent plunger on, the Cleveland side. He wagered 20,000dols. to 12,000dols. that Cleveland would carry New York. Wheelock, a bookmaker, placed about 50,000dols. on Harrison, betting both on the State and the general result. Kearney, another of the fraternity, had 50,000dols. staked on the result on the Cleveland side. Fifty thousand dollars of Democratic money was deposited at the Hoffman House on the Wednesday before the election, the greater part of which was covered by Harrison bettors, many of whom were sporting men. In all nearly 400,000dols. was at stake in New York alone, apart from other places.

STEAMER IN COLLISION WITH A LIGHTHOUSE. 
DESTRUCTION OF THE LATTER. TWO OF THR OCCUPANTS DROWNED. 
The steamer Medway, from Bristol to Belfast (Captain James Arnold), was on Friday morning approaching the small lighthouse in Belfast Lough on the side opposite to that showing the light, and in the darkness she failed to see the lighthouse and collided with the structure, carrying it completely off its basement. The boat was promptly lowered, and in the lantern of the over-turned lighthouse were found James Cooke, the keeper, and his sons Robert and Arthur. The younger son, named Ernest, was drowned, and the father expired immediately after being rescued. 
THE INQUEST. 
The inquest was held at Belfast on Friday night on the bodies of James and Ernest Cook.— The eldest of the rescued boys, who was in the light-house at the time of the ocurrence, stated that the usual lights were in their places when he went to bed, leaving his father up. The first he knew of the occurrence was feeling the shock and the water running in. He and his father and second brother got into the lantern of the house, from which they were subsequently rescued. The little fellow, Ernest, was in bed, and they could not get to him.—Captain Arnold, of the Medway, deposed that before he neared the lighthouse he had to starboard his helm to pass another vessel. He kept on the southern side of the lights, and did not see No. 2 until he was on it. At no time did he see No. 2 light, being on the south side, and the light showing only into the straight channel on the other side. When he saw the lighthouse he reversed the engines, but could not avert a collision, they succeeded in rescuing James Cook and two of his sons, but could not find the boy Ernest. James Cook was insensible, and died before they reached Belfast. Captain Arnold admitted that he should have been on the north side of the light, but stated that he had often gone on the other side. The chart marked the north side the proper course. The Jury found that death resulted from drowning, through the Medway colliding with the lighthouse. They added that the captain was not in his proper course, and that the lighthouse was improperly lighted, inasmuch as the light showed on only one side.

BARRY DOCK NEWS
29 SEPTEMBER 1899
 
SOCIALISM: A REJOINDER. 
To the Editor of the "BARRY DOCK NEWS."
SIR,—In two letters, occupying between them some four columns of your space, Mr Lewis Edwards has now completed his reply to my paper which appeared in your issue of August 18th, which was a criticism of a very lengthy essay by Mr Edwards that appeared in your columns some time previously. In that essay Mr Edwards attacked Socialism from the standpoint of economics, and, further, described it as being "antagonistic" to the Christian religion. To the latter I replied that much depended upon what was meant by the "Christian religion", and stated what I conceive to be the true Socialist position in the following words If by it (the Christian religion) is meant that system of abstract and speculative philosophy which deals with the origin of life and eschatology, then I reply that Socialism has nothing at all to do with theology. If, by the Christian religion is meant the ethical teachings of the Christ and His immediate followers which treat of the relationship of man to man, then I challenge our critic to demonstrate his thesis, and prove the "antagonism" of which he writes so positively. If, however, is meant that social-political movement which is based on Sacerdotalism, and makes belief the standard of living, then and let it be understood I give merely my own opinion - I admit that there is an antagonism between the two forces." Mr Edwards makes no comment upon this, but, merely saying Mr John Spargo denies that Socialism is antagonistic to the Christian religion," proceeds to re-vamp the statements contained in his original essay. What Mr Edwards demonstrates is that Socialism and Christianity differ that the one is not the other. This, of course, is true. I do not know that any Socialist has ever called it into question. The same could be said with equal truth of chemistry, for example, but because they are not the same, but different things, it by no means follows that they are "antagonistic." This is what Mr Edwards does not grasp. What Socialists insist upon is that the highest function of the State is to secure the greatest possible physical, mental, and moral good-those involving the greatest happiness-of the whole of its units. Beyond that it has not to do. With the great problems of the "vast outer life;" as one has written, of im-mortality and human destiny it has nothing to do. These are for the indvidual, and even if it would the State could not successfully take upon itself the duty of maintaining any particular super-natural religion, Mr Lewis Edwards admits that the aim of Socialism is, generally and broadly speaking, what I have stated it to be. He might, perchance, object to the claim that it seeks the greatest "moral" good, but the rest he himself states. Well, now, if Mr Edwards' very positive statement that Socialism and Christianity are "antagonistic" is true, and means what it states, then Christianity is opposed to the greatest physical, mental, and moral good of human society Hitherto, I have only heard Atheist lecturers make that statement. Coming from the pen of an apologist of the Christian religion it seems strangely out of place. But I know our friend would be the last to father this purely logical deduction from his own statement. No, Mr Edwards must base his argument upon some other ground. The method of trying to establish the identity of Socialism and Atheism by quoting from some writer, who like my friend, Belfort Bax, whom Mr Edwards quotes, belongs to both schools, is an unworthy one. I might just as readily quote from Socialist writers who are Christians, Spiritualists, Theosophists, and so on. Recently I had an enviable opportunity of hearing Bax read a paper on Socialism and Dogma to a large gathering. The following brief extract from that paper will, I fear, afford Mr Edwards little consolation. Speaking of the very question Mr Edwards and myself are discussing, Bax says :—" Each may truly have his own views on questions of meta-physics, the constitution of the universe, &c. Thus no Social Democrat has the right to quarrel with his colleague on speculative grounds. He may be materialist, he may be spiritualist, atheist or theist, he may believe in "spooks," he may believe in none. This may not make him any the less a good Socialist, because all those beliefs he may have arrived at by the exercise of his reason, rightly or wrongly." Passing over our critic's sneer at the teaching of men like Marx, Bebel, Lafargue, and Hyndman —which he designates "a gospel of pigwash"— with the contemptuous silence such ill-bred effrontery deserves, I turn hopefully to the second part of his reply to my paper, comforting myself with the vain hope, as it proves to be, that he will have essayed to defend those former statements of his as to the causation of economic value, and to rebut the several arguments in my paper in support of the Marxist theory. But, alas! he does not attempt anything of the kind. It is difficult, indeed, to believe that Mr Edwards has done me the bare justice of even reading my paper. However that may be, he deserts his position as a disciple of the "Utility" theory of value formu- lated by Professor W. Stanley Jevons- possibly he sees the final futility of that gospel of final Utility! My reply to his question concerning the value of sea-sand as compared with gold-dust which he put forward with such Alexander-like complacency, he does not refer to, and the whole of my argument—based upon the actual facts of e very-day commerce—in support of the Marx theory, he very conveniently ignores! Surely after neglecting to touch my paper at any point in this manner, he might have extended his apology for failing to find space in his three-column letter to reply to my remarks on Land Nationalization, to include the whole of my paper. 
Mr Edwards' second letter is indeed a strange production. About one-half of it consists of a crude, but, for our present purpose, acceptable, statement of the Marx theory of value. Surely however, that were scarcely necessary since he had before stated it in his original essay, and we were advanced upon an argument as to its merits. Having thus crudely re-stated the theory, he proceeds to show that the "method" of Marx was a wrong one. That he chose the purely logical-the dialectic-form of reasoning is, in the eyes of our critic, a grave error from which may be explained the "falsity" of the Marx theory.He would, of course, suggest the metaphysical method of reasoning—so dear to the Jevonian heart -which so signally failed in the hands of the pre-Marxist economists, and has not enabled any of our "moderns" to solve the problem. Mr Edwards suggests that Marx conveniently passed over a mass of Empirical facts" (sic!) because they did not suit his purpose. "Das Kapital" gives the lie to that suggestion. Marx took the "facts" of capitalist industry. classified them, and from them, by a purely logical method, deduced his theory. His was the logic of collected and classified facts, and by it only did Political Economy emerge from the no-way of "Empiricism" to the open paths of science and scientific method. Thus Marx did for Political Economy what Darwin did for Biology. The metaphysical method, in the case, at any rate, of the Capitalists belauded Jevons, led him into strange bye-paths. The constantly recurring crises in modern industry, so clearly explained by Marx, cannot to him be explained by any other means than some curious action of sun-spots upon earth-industry We go from surprise to surprise in Mr Edwards' letter. Marx nowhere attempts "a 'deep' and thorough analysis," forsooth, and our "deep and thorough" critic's "analytical" mind is distressed. Really, this is serious! Duhring, Bohm-Bawerk, Laveleye, Kidd, Walker, Jevons, Marshall, all have borne testimony to the patient investigations and far-reaching analyses of Marx, whilst disagreeing with his theories, but our new-fledged philosopher-well, the less said the better it really is too funny for words! 
With seeming reasonableness he complains that Marx did not include in his theory those exchangeable things which are not the products of labor, many of which he rightly says play an important part in commerce. But what he does not grasp is that Marx is always dealing with "capitalistic production,"that is to say, production, not for use primarily, but for profit. Nor does he grasp the fact, insisted on in my paper, that the wood in the tree or the coal in the mine, for example, have no value, either in use or exchange really. That they are sometimes sold in their natural condition and situation is true I grant, but it is only because of the fact that they are capable of being made accessible, and having the qualitative and quantitative properties of human labor power embodied in them. It is, indeed, but an anticipation by the parties to the sale of the ordinary course of economic law. All this is trite, and one almost apologises to the reader on that account, but our critic, who complains that Marx is not "deep" enough nor sufficiently" thorough in his analysis of the problem of the causation of value, seems as yet unable to grasp it. Here I leave these very lengthy letters, having given them much more attention than, on the whole, they were entitled to. If Mr Edwards will go back and defend his original position, and attempt to meet my arguments, I shall be glad to further discuss them. If not, then I have finished self-respect preventing my going further in the track of Mr Edwards. -I am, yours faithfully, JOHN SPARGO.

BARRY HERALD
14TH APRIL 1899

ART AND LITERATURE. 
THE William Black Memorial Fund is taking shape. The admirers of the late novelist throughout the world are to be asked to contribute. It has been suggested by Lord Archibald Campbell that the memorial should take the form of a lifeboat for the West Coast of Scotland. A great number of well-known people have already consented to join the committee. The list includes the names of the Duchess of Sutherland, Mme. de Navarro (Mary Anderson). Mr. J. M. Barrie, Sir Walter Besant, Mr. Leatham Bright, Dr. Conan Doyle, Anthony Hope, Rudyard Kipling, the Marquis of Lome, Mr. Justin McCarthy, Dr. Donald Macleod, Mr. Orchardson, R.A., Sir John Robinson, Sir Edward Russell, Lord Strathcona, Baron Tauchnitz, Mr. J. L. Toole, and the editors of the Academy and the Graphic. 
PROFESSOR HALES, in the Home Counties Magazine, demolishes for ever the belief that the well-known hostelry on Hampstead-heath ever had any connection with Jack Straw, the too-advanced Essex politician of the Fourteenth Century. The ruins of the house of the Prior of the Knights Hospitallers at Highbury were once known as Jack Straw's Castle, and it is certain that the men of Essex did actually demolish that "second Paradise" of the wealthy Prior. But the inn at Hampstead can show no valid evidence that Jaok ever refreshed himself there, either with vandalism or creature comforts. In the same magazine Mr. William Page continues his interesting account, profusely illustrated, of the Brasses and Indents in St. Albans Abbey, and Mr. W. J. Hardy contributes the second of two excellent articles recalling The Story of Blackheath, "giving a reproduction of a plan of the Heath in 1751. 
PROFESSOR W. BOYD DAWKINS, the geological adviser to the Kent Coal Exploration Company, who has just discovered the existence of a coalfield in the South-East of England, is a Welshman, and was born at Welshpool in 1838. He was educated at Rossall, where he gained an open scholarship, and at Oxford, where he took first-class honours in Natural Science. After leaving the University Mr. Boyd Dawkins joined the Geological Survey of Great Britain and worked on it up to 1870, when he was appointed lecturer in Geology at Owens College. Nine years later he became Professor of Geology and Palaoontology at the same institution. He is the author of many books, among which may be mentioned "Cave Hunting," Early Man in Britain," British Pleistocene Mammalia." 
READERS unacquainted with the French Copyright Laws will not have realised that the 50th anniversary of Balzac's death, to be celebrated in August next in Paris, Tours, and elsewhere in France, will be followed a year later by the expiration of the copyright of his books. It is a safe prediction that within five years thousands of his countrymen, who at present know little or nothing of the "Comedie Humaine" will be familiar with the leading characters in that marvellous series of novels. It is even probable that the sales of contemporary modern fiction will be affected by the appearance of cheap editions in volume form or as serials in popular newspapers. But living French novelists will probably find innumerable customers among the foreigners who will flock to Paris in the summer of 1900, and they may therefore be less inclined to fear the competition of one who was greater than they. 
MR. GEORGE FRAMPTON has been busy lately with the great statue of the Queen which is eventually to be erected at Calcutta, so that he will be represented at the Academy by small works only, a couple of busts, and a little figure of St. George in gold armour standing on the agate globe and holding in one hand a banner and in the other an enamelled shield. This statement is of special interest because it shows admirably how various materials can be applied so as to produce perfectly harmonious result. 
MR. SIDNEY COOPER, the veteran painter of animals, developed his wonderful ability whilst quite a boy. When at school he used to get his sums done for him in return for sketching a horse or drawing a bird perched on the bough of a tree. 
MR. G. S. LAYARD, of Malvern, who is authorised by the family of the late Mrs. Lynn Linton to write her biography, asks owners of letters, newspaper cuttings, portraits, and any other documents or illustrations germane to the subject, to forward them to him. 
IN connection with the Van Dyck Tercentenary, which is to be celebrated at Antwerp in August next, 1,000,000 special postage stamps will be issued which which will bear a portrait of the great painter from a drawing by Gerard Postielje, In the programme of the fetes, drawn by the committee appointed for the purpose, is included an historical procession representing the development of art from the earliest known times to the days of Rubens. 
THOSE who were delighted with Mr. Byam Shaw's illustrations of a large selection of Browning's poems will be glad to hear that he is engaged on a series of drawings for the Chiswick Shakespeare," the first volume of which, "Hamlet" and "The Merchant of Venice," will be brought out during the present season. Each play will have a whole volume to itself, with six full-page drawings and head and tail pieces. Mr. John Dennis will supply a short introduction and Glossary to each play. The Glossary may be welcome, but why another series of Introductions to Shakespeare? Are there not enough already, of every degree of excellence? 
A NEW work on political economy by Dr. Anton Menger, Professor of Jurisprudence in the Univer sity of Vienna, entitled "The Right to the Whole Produce of Labour: The Origin and Development of the Theory of Labour's Claim to the Whole Product of Industry," has been translated into English by Mr. M. E. Tanner, and issued by Messrs. Macmillar and Co., with an Introduction and Bibliography by Mr. H. S. Foxwell, M.A., Professor of Economics at University College, London. 
MESSRS. WILLIAM ANDREWS AND Co. promise for early publication "Bygone Northumberland," edited by Mr. William Andrews, dealing with the history romance, legend and folk-lore of that famous county. The castles and battles of Northumberland form a prominent feature of the volume, which will be illustrated. 
BJERNSTJERNE BJORNSON, who is now living in Rome, will this autumn publish a great modern drama with the Latin title "Laboremus." 
Now that the cry of desecration is raised against Sir W. B. Richmond's designs in St. Paul's, it is interesting (remarks the Echo) to recall that Wren himself was annoyed by people who thought they could improve on his cathedral. The Commissioners appointed to oversee the work insisted on the addition of the stone balustrade, nine feet in height, which crowns the north and south walls. Wren was scornful. "I never designed a balustrade," he exclaimed. "Ladies think nothing well without an edging." He was still more annoyed by the heavy iron railing placed round the church. It spoilt the view of the flight of steps, and of the platform from which the walls spring. But the architect's protests availed nothing. The balustrade is there, and the railing stood until 1873. 
MR. J. M. BARRIN has completed another play, to which he has given the title, "Two Kinds of Women." Both the English and American rights have been secured by Mr. Frohwann. Mr. Barrie is said to be making excellent progress with his work, which is to be a sequel to "Sentimental Tommy," and hopes to finish it in May. 
IT is satisfactory to learn that Mr. S. R. Crockett is recovering very well from his operation. He says that he is "lying listening to the Esk Water down in the valley." This sounds like a sweet doing nothing. but Mr. Crockett can afford to take a well-earned rest, for several volumes from his pen are practically ready for issue. One of these may be expected shortly.

PIONEER
19th April 1919

Money's Part in Our Problem. 
A TRANSFERRED DEBATE. 
A few weeks ago Major Warrens, whose opinions on the question of currency have become known to the Socialists of the nation through the medium of our national organ "The Labour Leader," advised his readers to acquaint themselves with the works of Mr. Arthur Kitson, a prolific writer on the paper currency question, and probably its leading publicist today. Mr. John Barr (chairman of the Merthyr I.L.P.) and one of the keenest students of the money problem in the movement, regarded such advise as partial, and therefore wrote to the "Leader supplementing the advice with the recommendation of other books, including the works of Mr. Hartley Withers, between whom and Mr. Kitson a battle royal had been fought out in the "Times" Trade Supplement; and Marx's "Critique of Political Economy," the Socialist text-book on "Money." Unfortunately, the letter was too long for complete publication; the later, and controvertial portion was omitted. However, such as appeared brought a reply from Mr. Kitson himself. in which he remarked:-
PAPER CURRENCY. 
"It has always been a puzzle to me why Labour leaders have fought shy of the currency question. "Years ago when I tried to interest the late Keir Hardie and his associates, I was told by most of them that they did not understand the subject. And the curious thing is that many of the Labour leaders have ridiculed those who attempted to throw light on the subject, and Mr. Barr seems to be one of the number. What is termed the Paper Currency Theory "is nothing more or less than the theory that the functions of money can be as well—or, in fact, better-fulfilled by a valueless token as by a costly metal. And this theory has been demonstrated so satisfactorily and so universally that it is astounding to find intelligent men attempting to dispute it. The bankers themselves admit that it would have been impossible to carry, on during the war with a gold currency. The question is, why, since this paper money has functioned so well during the great crisis, should it not work equally well during times of peace? "Mr. Barr seems to be on the side of the bankers in wishing to see money scarce and dear, evidently forgetting that dear money means, not merely cheap commodities, but cheap labour. It is evident that since Labour has to buy money with its services, the scarcer money is the less chance there is of getting it and therefore the fewer the opportunities of employment.  
"The inflation of prices has not been due merely to the over-issue of Treasury Notes! On the contrary, the high prices compelled the Government to issue a larger volume of Currency than would otherwise have been needed. The high prices have been due to the fact that we have had to spend half our national energies in creating the munitions of destruction which were destroyed soon after they were manufactured. The result being that the money that was necessary to finance their production has necessarily remained in circulation, whilst the wealth it represented had to be destroyed. We therefore had an abnormal condition, of a decrease in the amount of real wealth created, together with an Increase in the number of claims to such wealth! But it would have been impossible to finance the war without inflation unless the Government had adopted a system of, communism. Money is not wealth, it is merely a claim to wealth, and it is difficult to understand why a mere claim to wealth should have to be engraven upon a costly metal like gold and silver when it can be just as well printed on a piece of paper. It would be just as rational for the Government to issue postage stamps made of copper or silver, or for a theatre manager to issue theatre tickets made of expensive metals, as it is for Governments to make money of the precious metals. 
There is no function performed by a golden sovereign that is not as well-in fact, better— fulfilled by a Treasury Note. I have never claimed that paper money will solve all our economic problems. I merely say that it is one step in the right direction, and a very necessary step.— Yours, etc., ARTHUR KITSON. 
"Stamford, Lines., March 17th, 1919." 
Such a letter needed a fairly lengthy reply to trace its fallacies. For a fallacy may be expressed as an epigram and vet require a volume to expose its illogic. The question is one that is exercising keen interest amongst South Wales students, as witness the popular demand for the two works of Hermann Cahn, and, since the leader could not find the space for the continuance of the discussion, we have consented to its publication in the "Pioneer." We are acquainting Mr. Kitson with the fact.—Ed. 
MR. BARR'S REPLY. 
Dear Editor,—Mr. Kitson is perturbed at the ridicule of Labour leaders who fail to see the paper-currency theory in any other light but that of drawn across the trail, and I can quite imagine our revered Keir Hardie, with whom I had the honour to be intimately acquainted, failing to see the benefit of pursuing this subject., but not from a lack of understanding. Socialists are untiring in their efforts to build up the Co-operative Commonwealth of the future, but they recognise that to lay the foundation it is essential the commodity production for profit system should be cleared away and a co-operative production for use substituted. That work finished, an ideal system of exchange of use-values, probably based on social time, will follow. Mr. Kitson's failure to interest the Labour leaders lies either in his inability to differentiate between the ideal and the real or from a belief that we can return to a general condition of barter which, as a basis for discussion of a modern problem is, in the words of Professor Laughlin (" Principles of Money "), "impracticable and may be summarily dismissed. 
AS MARX SHOWED. 
In a capitalistic system money, that commodity which functions as the universal equivalent, is part of wealth and not a claim to wealth, as economically understood) wealth in Capitalism is the sum of commodities; and as Marx pointed out in his "Critique of Political Economy" the main difficulty of the money problem is got over when the evolution of money from commodity is understood. Society exists by the exchange of its products, known as commodities, in Capitalism, and in primitive society exchange was done by barter, but the necessity of choosing one of the commodities to function as an equivalent (a measure of value) was early recognised owing to the difficulty of divisibility, i.e., splitting up commodities into aliquot parts. Later, as society advances, we find Governments placing their stamp on the particular commodity and the evolution is complete. Money then is not a fiat of Government, it is, as Menger pointed out, a social and not, a State institution, and is the circle of exchange C—M—C (commodity-money, money-commodity) you have the underlying principle of value for value, which is, to quote De Leon, "a natural reflex and sequence in exchange of the capitalist method of production." The introduction of valueless paper stamped with price names is in itself proof of the further advance of society to a condition of trust and confidence, but it is perfectly plain it can only act in the sphere of internal national circulation effectively so long as it conforms to the law regulating its proportion to the amount of the standard of price (gold) it would require to do the work: That is to say, if 100 millions of gold was required at a given time to circulate the commodities about to be exchanged then 100 millions of paper notes or any other valueless token with the Government imprimature would do the work, but whatever quantity you put in circulation over and above that limit the value in circulation remains at 100 and the result of overstepping the limit is to send up prices of the confronting commodities. 
Mr. Kitson  writes as if the medium of circulation was the only function of money, whereas the truth is, as Mr. Kitson well knows, that it is the only one of the many functions of money which paper tokens can perform, otherwise reformers could help to usher in the Millenium by propagating the philosophy that given reams of paper cut up into squares and labelled with price names you are adding to the riches of the world. Paper tokens can no more serve as a measure of value, not being value themselves. than anything imponderable can serve as a measure of weight (vide Cahn's "Capital Today ") The historical examples of depreciated paper, are many, e.g., John Law's Bank of France, the French assignats of the Revolution and the Continental Bills in the American War of Independence, which originated the phrase not worth a Continental," and in every instance left behind them a train of misery. As Jevons says in his "Mechanism of Exchange" The country which brings in inconvertible paper notes to its aid must indeed be in a, parlous condition. 
LIMITS OF PAPER. 
Mr. Kitson's justification for present inflation is amusing. "Impossible to finance the war without inflation!" I agree communism would have been the ideal condition, but communism presums a height of intelligence which would have made the present war impossible. To carry on the horribly brutal struggle we required materials and men and conscription of the methods of production was quite as easy as the conscription of men, but Capitalism draws the line at conscripting Rent, Interest and Profit, even as a patriotic duty. Mr. Kitson knows well that the war expenditure could have been met under an organised form of conscription of the resources of the country, instead of which credit instruments such as bank-originated money and John Bradbury's were created in a marvellously successful effort, to strengthen and preserve the interests of the capitalist class. 
AN ABSURDITY. 
As a disciple of the quantity theory of money Mr. Kitson believes that prices are regulated by the amount of money in circulation. It is no doubt a surprise to workers to hear that prices of commodities are not regulated by cost of production, but by the amount of money in the market and will be dismissed as an absurdity as quickly as the idea that wages are regulated not by the development of organisation amongst the workers but by the quantity of money in circulation; As in all other aspects of the monetary problem Marx hits the spot in his "Critique of Political Economy" when he say, "Prices are not high or low because there is more or less money in circulation, but on the contrary there is more or less money in circulation because prices are high or low." For a more modern and critical examination of the quantity theory I commend Professor Laughlin's "Principles of Money," wherein he shows the fundamental error of it when he says, it practically amounts to saying that the force regulating the price is the price, or the amount of money actually obtained, whatever that may be. What, for instance, regulates the price of wheat? Why, of course, the amount of the medium of exchange for which it is in fact exchanged. How much wood can a man chop? Why, great discovery! the wood that he chops !" It confuses the effect with the cause producing the effect. It gives us no clue to the causes affecting general prices. What fixes the prices of goods? Why the prices which are fixed? In conclusion may I say the Socialist holds the light and has got the key to economic salvation. He sees the cardinal point is the expropriation of all the surplus value by the capitalist class in the form of Rent, Interest and Profit, and will not be content until the whole system is uprooted and a social production for use substituted. The question of a means of circulating use-values is a mere detail in this scheme, and Labour will do well to continue to pour ridicule on any attempt to raise it to a paramount issue JOHN BARR. 
